---
layout: default
title: The Ancient Ones
---

The anicent ones are beings of immense power. Their ability to cross from the Otherworld to the mortal world is limited. There are 5 ancient ones that are known, their very will influencing both worlds. Anyone could considered an Ancient One so long as they are capable of influencing reality by their will alone. To gain that much power is rare and such power is used carefully to avoid damaging the world. The Ancient Ones reserve their power for use in 3 ways. Maintaining a set of natural law they agree upon, granting power to those that serve them, and sustaining themselves eternally.

## Guardian of the shadow lands
  The guardian of the shadow lands is an ancient creature with a vaguely feline appearance, its fur black as pitch, its chest shines with an inner light of many colors peaking through its thick fur. The guardians descendants are drawn to the souls of those near death. It is not known what they do with such souls but it is thought they bring them to this ancient one. The shadow lands from its name is supposedly a realm no one has ever entered or atleast none has returned. The guardian once spoken to a human that found themselves lost in the other world and survived. He performed a service for the guardian and was granted a boon and a question. His boon was to be returned home safely and his questions was "What are the shadow lands and awaits those to travel there?" The answer was "I do not know, none can travel there, none can return, not even I". The human then awoke in his bed, a black cat upon his chest that followed him for the rest of his days, after which the cat was not seen again.
## The call of the wild
  The call of the wild is the first Goblin and the source of all goblins. It started as an urge that would coalesce around a concept and create a living being. A coalescing of power that spawn a consciousness, each time holding its memories perfectly and recalling each incarnation. This ancient one can draw power from the wilds to a concept inorder to manifest itself.  The call of the wild is the most chaotic of the ancient one, its form and manipulations on the world change as it incarnates into different forms. For as  long as any can remember the call to the wild as incarnated as a concept so abstract it has no physical form, instead manifesting as the urge that spawns goblins which is why the call  of the wild thinks of all goblins as their children. This manifestation is a less powerful version of itself and happens when power builds in a given area. The power building appears random but some believe the call of the wild directs it for its own whims. But as it is incarnated as a concept that can't communicate, no one knows for sure.
## Mother of Stories and Lies
  The mother of stories and lies has been and always will be. They have existed at all times, at the same time. All time is a single point to them. Living for all entirety at the same time means they are always both dead and alive. Their body is that of a decaying corpse and has been since the start of time. Its location changes over time, vanishing and appearing in new places and no one knows how it moves. They have claimed their mind is no longer attached to their body and able to see all times and places but struggle to coherently comprehend time as mortals do. They are filled with knowledge of all that happens and could happen in the world. When they have their mind, body, and universe all in the same place and facing the same direction they can provide great knowledge to those that seek it. However, this is rare and is usually a sign of an event of great importance they wish to aid down a particular path. What the Mother of stories and lies craves more than anything is lies, untruths, and fabrications. Not just any, they crave stories most as they can see what is real but not the stories, lies, and relative truths of those experiencing the world that we tell ourselves. Whilst they know all, they can not create their own stories, they do not know how. Each new story allows them more control over their ability to create a story and manifest untruths. The mother has the full truth of the universe. Now they seek the full lie of the universe, one story at a time.
## Root and Branch
  Root and Branch is not just one entity but a collection of them working with a single mind and intent. Once a tree, great by the standard of trees and its like, the largest in what is now the infested woods. The trees grew guardians to protect them. Once a tree reached maturity a womb fruit grew with a guardian maturing inside. The guardian and tree were connected by a connection, both sharing a mind and fill to guard their tree and those nearby. Root and Branch manifested a giant of a guardian, a protector for the whole wood, not just the trees nearby. The woods being bountiful attracted parasites that took the bounty of the land for their own giving nothing by pain and suffering in return. Worms that bore through fruit, beetles that chewed through root and wood, insects that bite the soft tree flesh and drink the lifes blood within. Root and branch gained the worst of it, with its lifes blood the parasites grew first fat, then enlarged in size. But in so doing caused root and branch to grow a second womb fruit. Smaller than before, misshapen, discoloured, and an agony to bare. When it ripened and tore open no guardian emerged but a cloud of spores that spread around root and branch and the surrounding trees. The spores were what allowed a tree and guardian to be one. When the spores were inhaled or consumed from the parasites or other tree roots they formed a connection. The connected parasites and trees became subordinate to root and branch and followed its will. From that point on root and branch grew the whole wood becoming connected and controlled by it and the parasites infesting the whole wood, causing the trees to grow to root and branches bidding. With each new creature root and branches strength grew and so did their pains and agony from the parasitic life, growing strong enough to become one of the ancient ones.

## The lost one
  The lost one is mistress of the lost, damned, and forsaken. They have little time for society and lives as a nomadic hermit. Their origins are not well known. They were born before the ancient ones rose to power and were to last of the ancient ones to ascend. When they ascended they didn't have descendants that could follow them and their true nature from before is not known. They do however take in any who would seek power and strength if they are willing to pay the price. They are fond of deals for power, more so than the other Ancient Ones. They can bind beings to the words of a deal made with them without binding them to her. They are never malicious about it, attempting to trick people into deals. They want you to pick willingly and accept your fate. The lost one wonders the Otherworld freely and like the other ancient they can not pass over to the mortal world, but they do seem capable to create new links between the worlds with ease, calling those that interest them to her. Due to their propensity to make deals and their ability to manipulate the barrier with ease, some think the lost one made the deal that caused the ancient ones to influence the mortal world. However, the lost one has one connection to or desire for bone and the bone city where the ancient one was found is not somewhere the lost one is likely to linger long.