---
layout: default
title: Otherworld Drones
---

Drones are creatures that are not sentient or sapient. This does not mean they are unable to communicate, think, plan, or feel. Drones are either mindless entities that follow a set of rules and have no subjective experience or are extensions of another entity and share their mind, either controlled or an extension of another mind. These entities are not truly sentient of sapient even when they appear to be. In the case of extensions, should the creature die or be destroyed their thoughts and experience is retained by another entity. In the case of shared intelligence the individuals are considered drones but the collection is considered sentient or sapient, the death on an individual being considered like destroying a minor body part. Drones tend not to have a will of their own to use, those individuals of a shared intelligence can utilise will but it is the will of the mind and not their own.

## Root Spore
Root and Branch have many extensions of their mind with individuals affected by their spore. Those infested most have lost their mind and become fully subservient to their will. This is not done lightly and reserved for Root Spore infested that betray the mother tree as fully taking a new host in this was destroys their mind and doing it against their will in taxing and time consuming. When talking to Root Spore you are addressing the Ancient Once. Over time these infested creatures spores overtakes the body of the host until they gain the appearance of a mobile plant, commonly with bark of vines where there was once skin.

## Stones of Ionia (pronounced I-O-nia)
The stones of Ionia are a collective-intelligence spread across multiple stones in both the Otherworld and the mortal world. Once all the stones had the appearance of carved heads or faces and mainteined by the will of Ionia. During the divergence the stones in the mortal world weathers and many lost of their appearance but after the return Ionia was able to connect with them once again but couldn't repair the damage. Whilst the stones do not have functionality biological components they are able to see and hear the world around them although they can only communicate through their will. There stones are often used to gather information for Ionia and it is not uncommon to find people transporting Stones for Ionia as part of some deal.