---
layout: default
title: The Otherworld Sentient
---

Sentience is the capacity to feel, perceive, and have subjective experiences, such as emotions and sensations like pain or pleasure. Sentient creatures also only make an instinctual use of their will. Their will is used without conscious thought and is used for survival or for immediate need. The difference between these and sapient entities is the difference between humans and animals.

## Fircane
A creature that might be mistaken for a small dog at a distance. Canine in nature and covered in a short coat of thick bristles and a fine oily coating. They have an affinity for Fire and do not appear to be harmed by it. They can commonly be found carrying flint like substance in their mouth which they will smash of rocks to cause a spark and ignite themselves. They use this coating of far to scare prey and chase them towards others of their kind laying in wait. Once the prey is dead the Fircane come together to ensure they are all ignited before they lay on the preys corpse and let it burn to charcoal before eating what remains. Fircane will extinguish their flames by digging in the charred ground to loosen the earth to a dust and rolling in it. Fircane are often seen in areas of the wilds where the environment are dry, hot, or both. A captive Fircane can have their oil glands drained for a source of fuel or a well-trained Fircane will lay in a furnace or oven as needed.

## Portal Maw
Portal Maws are thought to be parasitical entities in the worlds. They move between doors and other closable entrances, never seen in transit between locations. A Portal Maw appears in a doorway with a closed door, occupying an infinitely small space. When the door opens it appears in the gap and attempts to consume the unwary. It is believe that exist in their own pocket dimension and the portal maw is just its mouth leaving the dimension to breach into the Otherworld to feed. Since the return they have been able to breach into the mortal world as well. Portal maws can be harmed and with enough damage they can unlatch from the door. However, they appear to work in pacts and quite often another will latch on to the door shortly after until it has be satiated. Occasionally they have been known to swarm every door of a building leaving people trapped in a building till they either die of dehydration, starve, or go mad and walk into a maw. There has been reports of distant and hard to reach settlements where traders arrived to find no one alive, many of the inhabitants missing and those left dead.

## Twisted Creature
Unlike the other creatures in this category Twisted Creatures is a sub category of its own. Before the divergence the barrier didn't just let creatures through one way and animals made their way through and lived in the Otherworlds unstable wild lands. There the creatures grew and changed under the influence of the Ancient Ones and the unstable wilds till they became twisted versions of themselves.
Animals of our world growing horns and spines, herbivores made carnivore and vice versa, fur becoming scale, features, or bare skin. The Ancient Ones learnt much from these creatures, experimenting with them and creating their own interpretations. Those that live today are those that were able to survive in the wilds. Since the return many of these creatures were drawn by some instinct to cross back over and made the wild areas of the mortal world more dangerous than they were before.
Before the divergence a rare few of these creatures made it back to our work and is the origin of some of our mythical creatures. Unicorns, gryphon, hydra, chimera, and many others all could have their origins in these twisted creatures.

